--- PAGE 1 ---
8th IEEE Jordan Conference on Applied Electrical Engineering 
and Computing Technologies (AEECT 2026) 
(IEEE Conference record number: 69724) 
28th – 30th July, 2026, Amman, Jordan 
http://aeect.net/ 
AEECT 2026 is the 8th Conference that IEEE Jordan Section organizes. This IEEE-listed conference provides a unique forum to discuss practical approaches 
and state of the art findings pertinent to applied electrical engineering and computing technology. AEECT 2026 program includes keynote addresses, panel 
discussions, paper presentations, exhibitions, and workshops. All papers will be peer reviewed by at least three reviewers based on full paper submission. 
The accepted papers will be published in the conference proceedings. Accepted papers will also be submitted for possible inclusion into IEEE Xplore subject 
to meet IEEE Xplore’s scope and quality requirements and indexed in SCOPUS. 
 
Steering Committee 
Prof. Ala’ Khalifeh, General Chair 
Dr. Khaled Jaber, Co-Chair 
Dr. Mousa Al-Akhras, IEEE JS Chair 
 
International Advisory Committee 
Prof. Ljubo Vlacic, GU, Australia 
Prof. Haiping Du, UOW, Australia 
Prof. Cajetan Akujuobi, PVAMU, USA 
Prof. Ikhlas Abdel-Qader, WMICH, USA 
Prof. Mihaela Albu, UPB, Romania 
 
TPC Chair 
Prof. Iyad Jafar 
 
Sponsorship committee 
Prof. Ala’ Khalifeh (Chair)  
Eng. Mohammad Alqasem 
 
Financial Committee 
Prof. Abdullah Qusef 
Moe'en Azar 
 
Publicity Committee  
Dr. Mohammad Al-
Othman  
Prof. Mohammad Salah 
Prof. Abadallah Qusef 
Dr. Sokyna Alqatawneh 
Dr. Malak Abdullah 
    Dr. Isam Trad  
    Dr. Mohammad Abduallah 
    Dr. Khalil Yousef 
    Shahed Al-Khatib 
 
Logistics and Coordination 
Eng. Nasiradeen Abuawwad (Chair) 
Eng. Mustafa Aqrabawe 
 
Students’ Volunteers Coordinator 
Majd Zarqan 
Publication Chair 
Dr. Khaled Jaber 
CFP Track Chairs and Main Topics 
Technical Program Committee Chair: Prof. Iyad Jafar 
Sustainable Energy/Power Systems and Smart Grids: renewable energy integration, electrification of heat and  
transport, optimal use of energy resources, active network management, energy storage, demand response,  
virtual power plants, energy management, power electronics, data analytics, forecasting, energy markets, peer- 
to-peer trading, power system analysis, dynamics, stability, control, electromagnetic transients, power quality, 
protection, automation, wide-area monitoring, HVDC transmission, grounding systems, and resilience. 
Track Chair: Dr. Khaled Alzaareer 
Electronics Engineering and Nano Technology: analog and digital electronics, embedded systems, VLSI design,  
mixed-signal circuits, MEMS and NEMS devices, nanoelectronics systems, semiconductor devices, nano - 
materials and fabrication techniques, nano -sensors and actuators, flexible and wearable electronics, RF and  
microwave circuits, optoelectronics, quantum electronics, photonic devices, and nanoscale modeling and  
simulation. Contributions exploring applications in healthcare, energy, communication, and computing are also 
encouraged. 
Track Chair: Prof. Fadi Shahrouri 
Communications, Signal Processing, and Computer Networks: 5G and beyond, massive MIMO, cognitive radios, 
machine learning for communications, power line and green communications, optical, satellite, and aerospace 
communication systems, signal processing, NOMA, wireless IoT, WSN, ad -hoc networks, satellite navigat ion 
systems, GNSS/GPS technologies and solutions. The track also covers software -defined networks, content 
delivery, multimedia systems, QoS, network protocols, deterministic and time -sensitive netw orking, and 
container networking. Additional areas include cyber -physical systems, Industry 4.0, IoT applications, cloud 
computing, mobile computing, distributed systems, high -performance computing, software engineering, 
databases, algorithms, digital transformation, health informatics, and computer graphics. 
Track Chair: Dr. Luae' Al-Tarawneh 
Biomedical Engineering: biomedical signal and image processing, biomedical instrumentation, biomedical systems 
modeling, biomedical electronic circuits and systems, biomechanics, artificial organs and prosthesis,  
rehabilitation and therapeutic systems, biomaterials and tissue engineering, biomedical and health informatics, 
clinical engineering, biomedical monitoring, neuro-engineering, and smart biomedical sensors. The track aims  
to showcase cutting -edge research that bridges engineering and healthcare, supporting the development of  
technologies that improve diagnosis, treatment, patient care, and overall health outcomes. 
Track Chair: Dr. Hisham ElMoaqet 
Control, Robotics, and Mechatronics: control methods and systems, automation and instrumentation, modeling  
and simulation, mechatronic system design, system identification, robotics, manufacturing methods,  
automotive and autonomous systems, navigation, mapping and localization, intelligent systems, sensor  
technology, sensor fusion, and design and optimization. The track aims to showcase innovative approaches that 
enhance system performance, autonomy, adaptability, and intelligence across a range of applications in modern 
engineering and industrial systems. 
Track Chair: Dr. Mutaz Ryalat 
Data Science and Artificial Intelligence: big data, data analytics, predictive analytics, data mining, natural language 
processing (NLP), data science management, data wrangling, machine learning, search algorithms and swarm  
intelligence, bioinformatics, and AI responses to the pandemics. The track aims to highlight innovative methods, 
tools, and frameworks that leverage data -driven insights and intelligent systems to solve complex problems  
across various domains. 
Track Chair: Dr. Mohammad Abdel-Majeed 
Cybersecurity: network security, digital forensics, incident response, malware analysis, mobile security, big data  
security, trust computing, data security and privacy, data hiding and anti -forensics, cloud computing security, 
threat intelligence, threat hunting, machine learning applications in cybersecurity, IoT security, cryptography,  
information security, cyber threats, and blockchain security. The track aims to explore innovative strategies,  
technologies, and frameworks for securing digital infrastructure, protecting  sensitive data, and enhancing  
resilience against emerging cyber threats. 
Track Chair: Prof. Iman AlMomani 
Important Dates   
 
Paper Submission Deadline May 31 2026 (Extended 
deadline) 
Review Decision Notification June 20, 2026 
Final Submission June 25, 2026 
Author Registration June 25, 2026 
Attendee Registration July 10, 2026 
E-Mail: ala.khalifeh@gju.edu.jo Website: http://aeect.net/ 
 
